OCPBUGS 70297 Known issue for oc adm release mirror (#104865)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rn-ocp-release-notes-known-issues.adoc

This section includes several known issues for {product-title} {product-version}.

> * If you mirror the {product-title} release images to the registry of a disconnected environment by using the `oc adm release mirror` command, the release image cosign signature is not mirrored with the image. 

Author: FYI: cosign signature came from the [release note text in the Jira](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-70297).

+
This is an issue in {product-title} {product-version}, because the `openshift` cluster image policy is deployed by default to the cluster, which causes CRI-O to automatically verify the signature when pulling images into a cluster.
+

> As a result of the missing signature, when upgrading to {product-title} {product-version} on a disconnected environment, the upgrade will fail. You can avoid this problem by installing the oc-mirror plugin v2  and using the `oc mirror` command to again mirror the {product-title} release image. The oc-mirror plugin v2 mirrors both the release image and its signature to a disconnected environment.

Reviewer: Maybe "As a result of the missing signature" -> "In the absence of the Sigstore signature" or something that explains what happens in that case, without assuming that the Sigstore-oblivious `oc adm release mirror` call was the only mirror tooling in use?

And the update from 4.20 to 4.21 will succeed, because the `openshift` ClusterImagePolicy only comes in at the end of the update.  The issue is with _the next_ CVO Pod reschedule after the `openshift` policy is in place.  Maybe replace "when upgrading...will fail" with:

> after updating to {product-title} {product-version} on a disconnected environment, future Cluster Version Operator Pods may fail to run.

"the oc-mirror plugin v2  and using" has a doubled space after `v2`.

Assembling all these suggestions:

```suggestion
In the absence of the Sigstore signature, after updating to {product-title} {product-version} on a disconnected environment, future Cluster Version Operator Pods may fail to run. You can avoid this problem by installing the oc-mirror plugin v2 and using the `oc mirror` command to again mirror the {product-title} release image. The oc-mirror plugin v2 mirrors both the release image and its signature to a disconnected environment.
```

+
If you cannot use the oc-mirror plugin v2, you can use the `oc adm release mirror` command to mirror the Sigstore signature into your mirror registry by using a command similar to the following:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc image mirror "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:${RELEASE_DIGEST}-.sig" "${LOCAL_REGISTRY}/${LOCAL_RELEASE_IMAGES_REPOSITORY}:${RELEASE_DIGEST}-.sig"

Reviewer: `${RELEASE_DIGEST}-` has a dash, but after the `sha256:..` digest.  I'm [suggesting][1] that folks take the release digest like `sha256:...`, replace the `:` with a `-`, add a `.sig` suffix, and use that as the tag name.  For example:

```console
$ oc adm release info -o json quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:4.20.0-x86_64 | jq -r .digest
sha256:d1dc76522d1e235b97675b28e977cb8c452f47d39c0eb519cde02114925f91d2
```

has `sha256:d1dc...` as the digest, but uses `sha256-d1dc...` in the signature tag:

```console
$ oc image info -o json quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:sha256-d1dc76522d1e235b97675b28e977cb8c452f47d39c0eb519cde02114925f91d2.sig | grep mediaType
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.dev.cosign.simplesigning.v1+json",
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.dev.cosign.simplesigning.v1+json",
```

In [my previous suggestion][1], I'd been using `${RELEASE_DIGEST/:/-}.sig` to create those tag names, implicitly assuming [Bash's `${parameter/pattern/string}` variable expansion][2].  That substitution isn't part of [POSIX parameter expansion][3], though, so fine with me if you'd rather talk through it in English below where you currently have `RELEASE_DIGEST:: Specifies your digest image`.  But something in this release note should cover replacing the digest's `:` with the `-` needed for a valid tag name.

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/104865#discussion_r2696042141
[2]: https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Shell-Parameter-Expansion.html
[3]: https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/V3_chap02.html#tag_18_06_02

----
where: 

> `RELEASE_DIGEST:: Specifies your digest image with the `:` character replaced by a `-` character. For example: `sha256:884e1ff5effeaa04467fab9725900e7f0ed1daa89a7734644f14783014cebdee` becomes `sha256-884e1ff5effeaa04467fab9725900e7f0ed1daa89a7734644f14783014cebdee.sig`.

Reviewer 2: In the preview link the format of `RELEASE_DIGEST` looks not right, could you fix it?
